# Image-Segmentation-and-Detection
 Automated plant object segmentation. For each image, automatically segment plant from background.
Task 1: Image Segmentation and Detection
Download two files: ‘plant image dataset.zip’ and “leaf_counts.csv” from Blackboard. Unzip the dataset file, you should obtain a set of 32 images. Among those images, there are 16 plant colour images and 16 corresponding leaf labelled images (ground-truth segmentation). Figure 1 shows an example of one plant image and its corresponding leaf labelled image. The “leaf_counts.csv” file contains the number of leaves for each image.
Please use conventional computer vision techniques (no deep/machine learning solution allowed in this task) to implement the following tasks. Please note that you are encouraged to develop one model with same parameter settings for all the images.
Task a: Automated plant object segmentation. For each image, automatically segment plant from background.
Task b: Segmentation evaluation. For each plant image, calculate the Dice Similarity Score (DS) which is defined in Equation 1; where M is the segmented plant mask obtained from Task 1, and S is the corresponding ground-truth binary mask. Please note that, in this case, for the provided plant labelled images, you can convert the color images into binary images (e.g. plant object and background), and use the converted binary images as ground-truth mask.
𝐷𝑆 = 2|M⋂S|/ |M|+|S|
The calculated DS shall be between 0 and 1. For example, DS is 1 if your segmentation matches perfectly with the ground-truth mask, whist DS is 0 if there is no overlap between your segmentation and ground-truth mask.
Task c: Automated leaf detection. For each plant image, automatically detect leaf objects and count the number of leaves in the image

Your report should include: 1) For two plant images (plant_002, plant_005), you are required to put the original images, segmented plant image, the calculated DS value for each of the two images, and the detected leaf image and counting the number of leaves. Please note for the leaf detection you are not required to properly segment all the leaves, you can use bounding box to show the location of each leaf; 2) for all the 16 plant images, please provide a bar graph with x-axis representing the number of the image, and y-axis representing the corresponding DS. 3) Calculate the mean of the DS for all the 16 images, and 4) Leaf detection performance evaluation. Please provide a Table showing the absolute difference of the automated leaf counts (multiple detections of the same leaf should count one) and the actual number of leaves provided in the csv file for each image, calculate the mean of the differences in leaf counts over all the 16 images. 5) briefly describe and justify the implementation steps. Please note that you are required to show the detected leaf images for all the 16 images (along with the corresponding leaf labelled images) in the Appendix.
